Rewrote pipelines, caching and remote caching docs (#1758)
vercel/turborepo: docs/pages/docs/core-concepts/caching.mdx

# Caching

Turborepo ships with a **task cache**. It can cache the results of any task - meaning you never need to do the same work twice.

## Missing the cache

Each task in your monorepo has an **input** and an **output**.

> - A `build` task takes in **source files as input** and returns **bundled files as output**.

Author: 1. How about translating to 'might' take in source files, and 'might' return bundled files.
2. We explain that further down.

> - A `build` task takes in **source files as input** and returns **bundled files as output**.

Author: Modified to add a callout explaining this

> - A `lint` or `test` task also takes in **source files**, but outputs to **`stdout`**.

Author: How about translating to 'might' take in source files, and might output to `stdout`.

Let's say you run a `build` task with Turborepo using `turbo run build`:

![](../../../public/images/docs/cache-miss.png)

> 1. Turborepo will **take the inputs to your task** (by default all non-gitignored files), and **turn them into a hash**, like `78awdk123`.

Reviewer: It also looks at resolved versions of the specified dependencies in the root lockfile based on the workspace package.json and the hash(es) of any other task in the codebase which the current task depends on (like a merkle tree).

> 2. It'll then **check its local cache** for a folder named `78awdk123`.

Reviewer: It checks all caches, local first and then remote if available.

Author: The user doesn't know about remote caching at this point.

3. If it doesn't find it, it **runs the task**.

> 4. Once the task is over, it **saves all the outputs** (including logs) under the hash.

Reviewer: It will save it both locally to disk and also to any remote cache as well

## Hitting the cache

> Let's say that you run the task again without changing any of the source files:

Author: Added a callout to explain this

![](../../../public/images/docs/cache-hit.png)

1. The **hash will be the same** - `78awdk123`, because **the inputs haven't changed**.

2. Turborepo will find the `78awdk123` folder in its cache.

> 3. **Instead of running the task**, Turborepo will **replay the output** - printing the saved logs to `stdout` and restoring the output files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Instead of running the task**, Turborepo will **replay the output** - printing the saved logs to `stdout` and restoring the saved output files to their respective position in the filesystem.
```

> Restoring files and logs from the cache happens near-instantaneously. This can take your build times from many minutes down to **less than 100ms**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restoring files and logs from the cache happens near-instantaneously. This can take your build times from minutes or hours down to seconds or milliseconds. Although specific results will vary depending on the shape and granularity of your codebase's dependency graph, most teams find that they can cut their overall monthly build time by around 40-85% with Turborepo's caching.
```

# Caching

Turborepo can cache the results and logs of any task in your codebase—meaning you never need to do the same work twice.

## Missing the cache

Each task in your codebase has **inputs** and **outputs**.

- A `build` task might take in **source files as input** and return **bundled files as output**.

> - A `lint` or `test` task might take in **source files**, and only output to **`stdout`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `lint` or `test` task  might have source files as _inputs_ and _outputs_ logs to `stdout` and `stderr`.
```

Let's say you run a `build` task with Turborepo using `turbo run build`:

![](../../../public/images/docs/cache-miss.png)

> 1. Turborepo will **take the inputs to your task** (by default all non-gitignored files in the workspace folder), and **turn them into a hash**, like `78awdk123`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Turborepo will **take the inputs to your task** (by default all non-gitignored files in the workspace folder) and **turn them into a hash**, e.g. `78awdk123`.

> 1. Turborepo will **take the inputs to your task** (by default all non-gitignored files in the workspace folder) and **turn them into a hash**, e.g. `78awdk123`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Turborepo will **evaluate the inputs to your task** (by default all non-gitignored files in the workspace folder) and **turn them into a hash** (e.g. `78awdk123`).
```

> 2. It'll then **check its cache** for a folder named `78awdk123`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Check the local filesystem cache**  for a folder named with the hash (e.g.`./node_modules/.cache/turbo/78awdk123`).
```

> 3. If it doesn't find it, it **runs the task**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If it doesn't find it, it **executes the task**.
```

> 3. If it doesn't find it, it **executes the task**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If Turborepo doesn't find any matching artifacts for the calculated hash, Turborepo will then **execute the task**.
```

> 4. Once the task is over, it **saves all the outputs** (including logs) into its cache under the hash.

Reviewer 2: 4. Once the task is over, it **saves all the outputs** (including logs) into its cache with the key `78awdk123` (the computed hash)

Author: I prefer my version.

> 4. Once the task is over, it **saves all the outputs** (including logs) into its cache under the hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once the task is over, Turborepo **saves all the outputs** (including files and logs) into its cache under the hash.
```

<Callout type="info">
  Turborepo takes a lot of information into account when creating the hash - source files, environment variables, and even the source files of dependent workspaces. Learn more [below](/docs/core-concepts/caching#hashing).
</Callout>

## Hitting the cache

Let's say that you run the task again without changing any of its inputs:

![](../../../public/images/docs/cache-hit.png)

1. The **hash will be the same** - `78awdk123`, because **the inputs haven't changed**.

> 2. Turborepo will find the `78awdk123` folder in its cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Turborepo will find the folder in its cache with the calculated hash (e.g. `./node_modules/.cache/turbo/78awdk123`)
```
